# Functions and Objects

# Exercises

For these exercises, create:

- arrays-09.html
- arrays-09.js

Use this contents for the html file:

## arrays-09.html

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>JavaScript Test Site</title>
    <script src="arrays-09.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>Nothing going on yet.</p>
  </body>
</html>
```

## Exercise 1:

We can add functions to objects as properties.  This allows us to add functionality to objects.  We can also use the `this` keyword to refer to the object that the function is a property of.

```javascript
const person = {
  name: "John",
  age: 32,
  greet: function() {
    console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.name}`);
  }
};
```

In the above example, we have an object called `person` with two properties, `name` and `age`.  We also have a function called `greet` that will log a message to the console.  The `this` keyword is used to refer to the object that the function is a property of.  In this case, `this` refers to the `person` object.

We can call the function like this:

```javascript
person.greet();
```

## Exercise 2:

We can improve the above by using the method shorthand.  This is a shorter way of writing functions as properties of objects.

```javascript
const person = {
  name: "John",
  age: 32,
  greet() {
    console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.name}`);
  }
};
```

This is a shorter way of writing the function as a property of the object.  The `function` keyword is not needed.

We can call the function in the same way:

```javascript
person.greet();
```

Note that you should NOT use arrow functions when defining methods on objects.  Arrow functions do not have their own `this` value, so they will not work as expected.  If that doesn't make sense, don't worry too much, just remember not to use arrow functions when defining methods on objects.

## Exercise 3:

Add a method to the `person` object called `birthday()` that will increase the age by 1.

Such that the following code:

```javascript
const person = {
  name: "John",
  age: 32,
  greet() {
    console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.name}`);
  },
  // add the birthday method here
};

console.log(person.age); // 32
person.birthday();
console.log(person.age); // 33
```
