# DOMContentLoaded

We have been using the `DOMContentLoaded` event in our JavaScript snippets. This event is fired when the initial HTML document has been completely loaded and parsed, without waiting for stylesheets, images, and subframes to finish loading.

You can check out the documentation on MDN [DomContentLoaded](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/DOMContentLoaded_event)

If you review the snippet of "bulma" javascript in the head of our document, you will notice that this uses the same mechanism.

If we review the code:

```html
<head>
....
  <script>
    document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', () => {
      const heading = document.querySelector('.is-size-1');
      heading.innerHTML = 'Hello, there!';
    });
  </script>

</head>
```

We can see that we call the `document.addEventListener` method with the `DOMContentLoaded` event and a callback function. This function will be executed when the event is fired.

The browser is event-driven.

Events are actions or occurrences that happen in the system you are programming, which the system tells you about so you can respond to them in some way if desired.

For example, if the user clicks a button on a webpage, you might want to respond to that action by displaying an information box. In this case, the event is the click action, and the response is to display the information box.

We won't go into too much detail about events in this course, but it is important to understand that the browser is constantly firing events, and you can listen for these events and respond to them in your code.

In this case, we are listening for the `DOMContentLoaded` event, which is fired when the initial HTML document has been completely loaded and parsed.

Also, note that we have called `document.addEventListener` twice in our document.  This is perfectly fine.  You can call this method as many times as you like.  Each time you call it, you are adding a new event listener to the document.

Examine the second parameter to the `document.addEventListener` method.  This is an anonymous function.

This is a function that is defined at the point where it is called.  

This is a common pattern in JavaScript and is used to define a function that is only used in one place.

```javascript
() => {
      const heading = document.querySelector('.is-size-1');
      heading.innerHTML = 'Hello, there!';
    }
```

It can also be written as:

```javascript
(event) => {
      const heading = document.querySelector('.is-size-1');
      heading.innerHTML = 'Hello, there!';
    }
```

Where event is the actual event that is fired.  This event contains information about the event that was fired.  In this case, we don't need to know anything about the event that was fired.

The above is an arrow function, we haven't covered functions or arrow functions yet so just try and gain familiarity with the syntax.

# Window Load

It is possible to listen for the `load` event on the `window` object.  This event is fired when the entire page has loaded, including all images, stylesheets, and other resources but for now we will stick to `DOMContentLoaded`.